.\"	$Id: hgd-netd.1,v 1.3 2011/01/23 13:32:08 edd Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Edd Barrett <vext01@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: January 23 2011 $
.Dt HGD-NETD 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm hgd-netd
.Nd Network daemon for the Hackathon Gunther Daemon.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm hgd-netd
.Bk -words
.Op Fl fhv
.Op Fl d Ar state-dir
.Op Fl n Ar num-votes
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Op Fl x Ar debug-level
.Op Fl y Ar path-to-vote-sound
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a the network daemon for the Hackathon Gunther Daemon -- a music system
suitible for hackathons, internet cafes, LAN parties etc.
.Pp
.Nm
is primarily responsible for recieving files for
.Xr hgd-playd 1
to play later. A playlist is stored in an SQLite3 database in the state
directory.
.Nm
can also recieve other commands from clients, such as requests to "vote-off"
the currently playing song, if the user dislikes the song.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d Ar dir
Set the HGD state directory where the SQLite database and uploaded files will
be stored. This defaults to /var/hgd.
.It Fl f
Don't fork and service a single client only. This is useful for debugging
purposes only.
.It Fl h
Show the usage help and exit.
.It Fl n Ar num
Set the number of votes required to "vote-off" a song. This defaults to 3.
.It Fl p Ar port
Set the TCP port to listen on. Defaults to 6633.
.It Fl s Ar mb
Set the maximum file upload size in MB. Defaults to 50MB.
.It Fl v
Show version information and exit.
.It Fl x Ar level
Set the debug level: 0=errors, 1=warnings, 2=info, 3=debug. Defaults to 1.
.It Fl y Ar path
Set the path to a sound file to play when a vote-off is successful. None by
default.
.El
.Sh HISTORY
HGD was inspired by the LPD hack -- a music system used at OpenBSD hackathons.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.Nm
was written by
.An Edd Barrett Aq vext01@gmail.com
.Sh BUGS
Probably
