.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Edd Barrett <vext01@gmail.com>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Martin Ellis <ellism88@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" [[[[[ DONT FORGET TO BUMP THE DATE WHEN YOU MAKE AMMENDMENTS ]]]]]
.\"
.Dd October 19, 2011
.Dt HGD-ADMIN 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm hgd-admin
.Nd Administration program for the Hackathon Gunther Daemon.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm hgd-admin
.Bk -words
.Op Fl hv
.Op Fl d Ar dir
.Op Fl x Ar debug-level
.Ar Command
.Ar Args
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is an administration program for the Hackathon Gunther Daemon; a music system
suitable for hackathons, internet cafes, LAN parties etc.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d Ar dir
Set the path to the HGD state directory.
.It Fl h
Show the usage help and exit.
.It Fl v
Show version information and exit.
.It Fl x Ar level
Set the debug level: 0=errors, 1=warnings, 2=info, 3=debug. Defaults to 1.
.El
.Pp
The commands are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It db-init
Delete any existing database and make a fresh one.
.It pause
Toggle pause.
.It skip
Skip current track.
.It user-add Ar user [pass]
Add a user to the system. The password parameter is optional; if no password is
given,
.Nm
will prompt for one.
.It user-del Ar user
Delete a user from the system.
.It user-list
List users in the system.
.It user-mkadmin Ar user
Set the admin flag on this user. This allows them to (for example) skip tracks.
.It user-noadmin Ar user
Revoke the admin flag on this user.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Nm
can read it's settings from a config file. The following locations
(in the order shown) are searched:
.Pp
.Bl -enum -compact -width Ds
.It
A path specified by '-c' (if given).
.It
~/.config/hgd/hgd.rc
.It
/etc/hgd/hgd.rc
.El
.Pp
The first config file found is used. If no config file is found, default
settings are used.
.Pp
Sample config files are supplied in the source tarball and should be
supplied by binary packagers.
.Sh HISTORY
HGD was inspired by the LPD hack -- a music system used at OpenBSD hackathons.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.Nm
was written by
.An Edd Barrett Aq vext01@gmail.com ,
and
.An Martin Ellis Aq ellism88@gmail.com .
.Sh BUGS
Probably.
