.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Edd Barrett <vext01@gmail.com>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Martin Ellis <ellism88@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" [[[[[ DONT FORGET TO BUMP THE DATE WHEN YOU MAKE AMMENDMENTS ]]]]]
.\"
.Dd June 20, 2011
.Dt HGD-SCRIPTING 7
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm hgd-scripting
.Nd HGD Python Scripting Backend Manual
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
describes how to use Python to extend HGD.
.Sh SCRIPTING API
NOTE: The Python scripting backend is experimental at this time, and the API is
subject to change. You have been warned.
.Pp
When HGD is built with Python support, a Python interpreter is embedded into
.Xr hgd-playd 1
\&. Python scripts are loaded from a plugin directory as
.Xr hgd-playd 1
initialises. Each script may define a number of "hooks", which are called at
strategic times during runtime of
.Xr hgd-playd 1
\&.
.Pp
Hooks defined thus far:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It hgd_hook_init()
Triggers as
.Xr hgd-playd 1
is initially loading the script.
.It hgd_hook_pre_play()
Triggers before a track is to be played.
.It hgd_hook_post_play()
Triggers after a track has played.
.It hgd_hook_nothing_to_play()
Triggers every second there is nothing to play.
.El
Each hook is passed a hgd.Hgd instance from which the user can obtain
information about the running
.Xr hgd-playd 1
, including the playlist. Documentation
on this class and other support classes should be distributed with your HGD
distribution.
.Pp
In the future we plan to allow the user to re-order the playlist. We are also
considering embedding Python into other HGD components.
.Sh TECHNICAL DETAILS
The main glue class hgd.Hgd is implemented using the Python C API (see py.c).
There are some other non-native classes which are loaded at runtime from
your system's datarootdir (configurable at configure time).
.Pp
Because the hgd.Hgd class is written in C, this makes it awkward to get API
docs for. This is what hgd-mk-pydoc is for.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.Nm
was written by
.An Edd Barrett Aq vext01@gmail.com
.Sh BUGS
Please report bugs in this guide back to use via the github issue tracker.
