.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Edd Barrett <vext01@gmail.com>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Martin Ellis <ellism88@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: January 26 2011 $
.Dt HGD-PLAYD 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm hgd-playd
.Nd Network daemon for the Hackathon Gunther Daemon.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm hgd-playd
.Bk -words
.Op Fl Chpqv
.Op Fl d Ar state-dir
.Op Fl x Ar debug-level
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is  the player daemon for the Hackathon Gunther Daemon -- a music system
suitable for hackathons, internet cafes, LAN parties etc.
.Pp
.Nm
plays uploaded files from clients, as described in an sqlite3 database in the
state directory.
.Nm
uses
.Xr mplayer 1
for multimedia playing capabilities and will play both audio files and video
files (if DISPLAY is set).
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl C
Clear the playlist at startup.
.It Fl d Ar dir
Set the HGD state directory where the SQLite database and uploaded files will
be stored. This defaults to /var/hgd.
.It Fl h
Show the usage help and exit.
.It Fl p
Don't purge finished tracks from the filesystem (files/ in state dir).
.It Fl q
Don't purge finished tracks from the sqlite3 database.
.It Fl v
Show version information and exit.
.It Fl x Ar level
Set the debug level: 0=errors, 1=warnings, 2=info, 3=debug. Defaults to 1.
.El
.Sh HISTORY
HGD was inspired by the LPD hack -- a music system used at OpenBSD hackathons.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.Nm
was written by
.An Edd Barrett Aq vext01@gmail.com ,
and
.An Martin Ellis Aq ellism88@gmail.com .
.Sh BUGS
Probably
