.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Edd Barrett <vext01@gmail.com>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Martin Ellis <ellism88@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" [[[[[ DONT FORGET TO BUMP THE DATE WHEN YOU MAKE AMMENDMENTS ]]]]]
.\"
.Dd February 24 2011
.Dt HGD-NETD 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm hgd-netd
.Nd Network daemon for the Hackathon Gunther Daemon.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm hgd-netd
.Bk -words
.Op Fl eEfhv
.Op Fl c Ar path-to-tls-cert
.Op Fl d Ar state-dir
.Op Fl k Ar path-to-tls-key
.Op Fl n Ar num-votes
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Op Fl x Ar debug-level
.Op Fl y Ar path-to-vote-sound
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is the network daemon for the Hackathon Gunther Daemon; a music system
suitable for hackathons, internet cafes, LAN parties etc.
.Pp
.Nm
is primarily responsible for receiving files for
.Xr hgd-playd 1
to play later. A playlist is stored in an SQLite3 database in the state
directory.
.Nm
can also receive other commands from clients, such as requests to "vote-off"
the currently playing song, if the user dislikes the song.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Ar file
Set the path to the SSL certificate file.
.It Fl d Ar dir
Set the HGD state directory where the SQLite database and uploaded files will
be stored. This defaults to /var/hgd.
.It Fl E
Disable SSL support.
.It Fl e
Require clients to use SSL encryption.
.It Fl f
Don't fork and service a single client only. This is useful for debugging
purposes only.
.It Fl h
Show the usage help and exit.
.It Fl k Ar file
Set the path to the SSL private key.
.It Fl n Ar num
Set the number of votes required to "vote-off" a song. This defaults to 3.
.It Fl p Ar port
Set the TCP port to listen on. Defaults to 6633.
.It Fl s Ar mb
Set the maximum file upload size in MB. Defaults to 50MB.
.It Fl v
Show version information and exit.
.It Fl x Ar level
Set the debug level: 0=errors, 1=warnings, 2=info, 3=debug. Defaults to 1.
.It Fl y Ar path
Set the path to a sound file to play when a vote-off is successful. None by
default.
.El
.Sh ENCRYPTING WITH SSL
You can use self signed SSL on the server to encrypt all network
communications, thus protecting passwords. The simplest way to do this
is to do the following:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It cd /etc/hgd
.It openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout \\
	privkey.key -out certificate.crt 
.El

When hgd-netd sees a valid SSL certificate and private key, it will allow
SSL network communications from clients.

You can turn off or require clients to use SSL with -E and -e
respectively; however the default behaviour involves a handshake between
the client and server, favouring an encrypted connection if possible,
otherwise falling back onto unencrypted socket communication.

A warning is always printed if SSL encryption is not enabled.

You should ensure that the SSL private key remains secure on your
file-system.
.Sh HISTORY
HGD was inspired by the LPD hack -- a music system used at OpenBSD hackathons.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.Nm
was written by
.An Edd Barrett Aq vext01@gmail.com ,
and
.An Martin Ellis Aq ellism88@gmail.com .
.Sh BUGS
Probably
