.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Edd Barrett <vext01@gmail.com>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Martin Ellis <ellism88@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" [[[[[ DONT FORGET TO BUMP THE DATE WHEN YOU MAKE AMMENDMENTS ]]]]]
.\"
.Dd August 27, 2011
.Dt HGDC 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm hgdc
.Nd Client for the Hackathon Gunther Daemon.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm hgdc
.Bk -words
.Op Fl AaEehv
.Op Fl c Ar config
.Op Fl m Ar max-items
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Op FL r Ar refresh
.Op Fl s Ar host
.Op Fl u Ar user
.Op Fl x Ar debug-level
.Ar Command
.Ar Args
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a client for the Hackathon Gunther Daemon; a music system
suitable for hackathons, internet cafes, LAN parties etc.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
Turn colours on in hud mode.
.It Fl A
Turn colours off in hud mode.
.It Fl c Ar config
Location of config file.
.It Fl e
Require server to supply an SSL encrypted channel, or exit.
.It Fl E
Don't use SSL encryption. The server has the rights to reject your connection.
.It Fl h
Show the usage help and exit.
.It Fl m Ar max-items
Maximum playlist items to show in hud mode.
.It Fl p Ar port
Set the TCP port to connect to
.Xr hgd-netd 1
on. Defaults to 6633.
.It Fl r Ar refresh
Set the refresh rate of the hud (in seconds).
.It Fl s Ar host
Set the server host name or IP.
.It Fl u Ar user
Set username to authenticate with.
.It Fl v
Show version information and exit.
.It Fl x Ar level
Set the debug level: 0=errors, 1=warnings, 2=info, 3=debug. Defaults to 1.
.El
.Pp
The commands are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It hud
Enter `heads up display mode'; shows the playlist updating every second.
A persistent server connection is used.
.It ls
Show playlist.
.It q Ar file1 [file2 ...]
Queue the given file(s) in the playlist.
.It vo
Vote-off the currently playing track.
.El
.Sh A NOTE ABOUT ENCRYPTION
NOTE: SSL support in HGD is fine as-is for encryption purposes, but host
authentication (proving the server identity) is NOT (yet) implemented.
.Pp
You can turn off SSL encryption or refuse speak to servers if they don't
support SSL with -E and -e respectively; however the default behaviour
involves a handshake between the client and server, favouring an
encrypted connection if possible, otherwise falling back onto
unencrypted socket communication.
.Pp
A warning is always printed if SSL encryption is not enabled.
.Sh FILES
.Nm
can read it's settings from a config file. The following locations
(in the order shown) are searched:
.Pp
.Bl -enum -compact -width Ds
.It
A path specified by '-c' (if given).
.It
~/.config/hgd/hgdc.rc
.It
/etc/hgd/hgdc.rc
.El
.Pp
The first config file found is used. If no config file is found, default
settings are used.
.Pp
Sample config files are supplied in the source tarball and should be
supplied by binary packagers.
.Sh HISTORY
HGD was inspired by the LPD hack -- a music system used at OpenBSD hackathons.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.Nm
was written by
.An Edd Barrett Aq vext01@gmail.com ,
and
.An Martin Ellis Aq ellism88@gmail.com .
.Sh BUGS
Probably.
